Now, that you've learned what a JDBC connector is,
we're going to actually build one.
Let's build a JDBC source connector that loads
data from the Postgres purchase table into Kafka.
We're going to return to our workspace once again and we're
going to take a quick look at the sample3.py file which I've loaded up.
So we're going to go back to single document mode
and the first thing you're going to notice is that we have the same URL,
we have a slightly different connector name,
but we're going to now be creating a JDBC connector,
which has a different format from the file source connector.
I've already pre-loaded the documentations, let's pop, that open.
So there are many more options for the JDBC source connector,
as well as the sync connector.
Now, we're not going to be able to cover all of them,
but I do want to bring up this documentation,
this is going to be linked in your exercise for you to reference as well.
But it's important to have a read through here at to try to get a feel and understand
what options are actually available to you as a user of the JDBC source connector,
there are some things that you have to provide,
which we're going to review you shortly.
First, just like every connector,
you have to tell the KAFKA_CONNET which connector class to
use and specifically for the JDBC source connector,
what the prefix for the topics should be when it loads
the data out of your database into Kafka.
But you also have to give it some information such as which tables you are interested in,
If you don't give it this information it will load every table
in your database into Kafka connect.
Additionally, KAFKA_CONNECT will actually monitor your database for changes,
so as incrementing column name tells Kafka for the for
the tables that is loading which column it should look for for updates,
so let's go ahead and start to fill this out.
The first thing we need to do is figure out what the connector class is.
So let's go back to the documentation and will scroll up,
scroll up and we can see that that's the first thing documented on a page,
connector class is io.confluent.connect.jdbc.
jdbcSourceConnector, Let's go ahead and fill it.
Now, the next thing is a topic prefix.
So we're loading the purchases table out of our SQL database,
so let's go ahead and just prefix it with connect dash,
so we know that KAFKA_CONNECT created the database table.
Next, let's go ahead and give it a maximum number of tasks,
again we're going to do one just like the previous example.
Now, the next thing is mode.
Now, this says to KAFKA_CONNECT what mode for the JDBC source connector run in,
some of the options here include bulk or incrementing,
but let's actually take a look to see what the options are in the documentation.
You can see they have nice documentation on it.
This essentially says, bulk says every time KAFKA_CONNECT loads,
it just takes all the data in
the table regardless of whether or not it's already seen it,
incrementing means it will actually use a column in the database table,
to identify whether or not data has changed,
and if data has changed it will load the data into Kafka once again.
Timestamp uses an actual timestamp column to detect changes and
timestamp and incrementing will use a combination of
both an incrementing column and a timestamp,
this is most popular in most used cases.
For us today, we're just going to use
incrementing because we have an incrementing column.
So we're going to return back to our workspace,
set the mode to incrementing and then we
have to tell it what the incrementing column name is.
At this point is probably a good idea to actually take a look at our database.
So let's actually open up a new terminal and drop out of single document mode.
I'm going to use psql to connect to Postgres,
the name of our database is classroom.
Now, that I'm connected, I'm going to describe
the purchases table and I make this full screen so we can actually look at it.
So the command I've used here is backslash d,
which essentially tells psql that I wanted to describe the purchases table,
so I can see the columns and the type.
So we can see we have a username,
a currency in amount, to var char,
there is an integer, and we also have an id column called id.
The id column will uniquely identify every single purchase.
So we're going to want to use this as our incrementing column,
as purchases are added to the purchases table,
we'll see this id numbers take up.
It's going to jump out of the single document mode,
we're going to set this incrementing column name
to id and if you want more information on this,
you can look in the documentation over here and see documented here.
Then we're going to give it a table whitelist,
now you can both blacklist and whitelist tables. What does that mean?
This tells KAFKA_CONNECT, a whitelist says I only want you to look at
these tables and a blacklist says I want you to look at
all tables but the ones that are listed.
Well, in this case, I only want KAFKA_CONNECT to look at a single table,
so I'm going to tell it purchase,
because we only are purchases,
because we're looking at public.purchases.
All right. Now, I've already pre-filled
a couple of other options here, the connection URL,
which has a JDBC connection URL for postgresql on
a local machine to the classroom database and I've specified the database user as root.
With that done, we're ready to go.
So I'm going to exit out the SQL and I'm going to run sample three. All right.
Now, let's actually curl KAFKA_CONNECT,
to make sure that it's actually seen this request.
So again we're going to hit the connectors URL to see that our connector is present.
So we have sample two and now we have
purchases JDBC and let's get the status of purchases JDBC,
just to make sure that it's actually running.
So if we go back into full view,
we can see that the purchases JDBC connector is in the running state as is its task.